# Extend `pgman` to support database lifecycle management.

The general intent of databases created by `pgman` are for the databases to be used by a single application.  The database will be created with a new user as the owner of the database, and this user will be used by the application to access the database.  The owner-user will not have superuser privileges by default, as this is not necessary for normal application usage and can pose a security risk if misused.

In general, the commands described below are anticipated to be executed with a superuser account, such as the `postgres` user, or a user with the `CREATEDB` role attribute.  The commands will create new users and databases, and will require the appropriate privileges to do so.

## Add Command `newdb`

The intent of the `newdb` command is to create a new PostgreSQL database using the provided configuration.  The format of the command line is:

```
pgman newdb [OPTIONS] <dbname>
```

supported options include:
- `--dbowner`: override the default and specify the owner of the new database
- `--dbpassword`: set the password for the new database owner

# Defaults

By default the new database owner will be a new user with the same name as the database and the suffix '_owner' appended to the name.  For example, if the new database is named `mydb`, the default owner will be `mydb_owner`.  

By default the new database owner will have a password generated by the utility.  The password will be a random string of between 13 and 17 characters, consisting of upper and lower case letters, numbers.  The generated password will be displayed in the output of the command.

The new database will be created with the default encoding of `UTF8` and the default collation of `en_US.UTF-8`. 

The new database owner (user) will be created with the default role attributes of `CREATEDB` and `LOGIN`.  The new database owner will not have the `SUPERUSER` role attribute by default.

The intent of the owner-user is to be used as the role account for accessing the database by the application the database is created for.  This includes the ability to create tables, insert data, and perform other operations within the database.  The owner-user will not have superuser privileges by default, as this is not necessary for normal application usage and can pose a security risk if misused.

## Add Command `dropdb`

The intent of the `dropdb` command is to drop an existing PostgreSQL database using the provided configuration.  The format of the command line is:

```
pgman dropdb [OPTIONS] <dbname>
```

The `dropdb` command will issue a confirmation prior to dropping the database. The confirmation will require the user to type the name of the database to be dropped.  If the typed name does not match the name of the database to be dropped, the command will exit without dropping the database.

The `--i-really-really-mean-it` option can be used to skip the confirmation prompt and drop the database without confirmation.  This option should be used with caution, as it will drop the database without any further confirmation.

## Add Command `listdbs`

The intent of the `listdbs` command is to list all PostgreSQL databases accessible by the provided configuration.  The format of the command line is:

```
pgman listdbs [OPTIONS]
```

If the `--json` option is provided, the output will be in JSON format.  Otherwise, the output will be in a human-readable format.

The `--with-owners` option can be used to include the owners of the databases in the output.  If this option is not provided, only the names of the databases will be listed.  The `pgman` utility should attempt to guess the owner of the database by querying the `pg_database` system catalog and retrieving the `datdba` column, which contains the OID of the owner of the database.  The utility should then query the `pg_roles` system catalog to retrieve the name of the role with that OID.  If the owner cannot be determined, the output should indicate that the owner is unknown.
